What's new in Tornado 2.2
=========================

Jan 30, 2012
------------

Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~

* Updated and expanded WebSocket support.
* Improved compatibility in the Twisted/Tornado bridge.
* Template errors now generate better stack traces.
* Better exception handling in `tornado.gen`.

Security fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``tornado.simple_httpclient`` now disables SSLv2 in all cases.  Previously
  SSLv2 would be allowed if the Python interpreter was linked against a
  pre-1.0 version of OpenSSL.

Backwards-incompatible changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `tornado.process.fork_processes` now raises `SystemExit` if all child
  processes exit cleanly rather than returning ``None``.  The old behavior
  was surprising and inconsistent with most of the documented examples
  of this function (which did not check the return value).
* On Python 2.6, ``tornado.simple_httpclient`` only supports SSLv3.  This
  is because Python 2.6 does not expose a way to support both SSLv3 and TLSv1
  without also supporting the insecure SSLv2.
* `tornado.websocket` no longer supports the older "draft 76" version
  of the websocket protocol by default, although this version can
  be enabled by overriding ``tornado.websocket.WebSocketHandler.allow_draft76``.

``tornado.httpclient``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``SimpleAsyncHTTPClient`` no longer hangs on ``HEAD`` requests,
  responses with no content, or empty ``POST``/``PUT`` response bodies.
* ``SimpleAsyncHTTPClient`` now supports 303 and 307 redirect codes.
* ``tornado.curl_httpclient`` now accepts non-integer timeouts.
* ``tornado.curl_httpclient`` now supports basic authentication with an
  empty password.

``tornado.httpserver``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.HTTPServer` with ``xheaders=True`` will no longer accept
  ``X-Real-IP`` headers that don't look like valid IP addresses.
* `.HTTPServer` now treats the ``Connection`` request header as
  case-insensitive.

``tornado.ioloop`` and ``tornado.iostream``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``IOStream.write`` now works correctly when given an empty string.
* ``IOStream.read_until`` (and ``read_until_regex``) now perform better
  when there is a lot of buffered data, which improves performance of
  ``SimpleAsyncHTTPClient`` when downloading files with lots of
  chunks.
* `.SSLIOStream` now works correctly when ``ssl_version`` is set to
  a value other than ``SSLv23``.
* Idle ``IOLoops`` no longer wake up several times a second.
* `tornado.ioloop.PeriodicCallback` no longer triggers duplicate callbacks
  when stopped and started repeatedly.

``tornado.template``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Exceptions in template code will now show better stack traces that
  reference lines from the original template file.
* ``{#`` and ``#}`` can now be used for comments (and unlike the old
  ``{% comment %}`` directive, these can wrap other template directives).
* Template directives may now span multiple lines.

``tornado.web``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Now behaves better when given malformed ``Cookie`` headers
* `.RequestHandler.redirect` now has a ``status`` argument to send
  status codes other than 301 and 302.
* New method `.RequestHandler.on_finish` may be overridden for post-request
  processing (as a counterpart to `.RequestHandler.prepare`)
* `.StaticFileHandler` now outputs ``Content-Length`` and ``Etag`` headers
  on ``HEAD`` requests.
* `.StaticFileHandler` now has overridable ``get_version`` and
  ``parse_url_path`` methods for use in subclasses.
* `.RequestHandler.static_url` now takes an ``include_host`` parameter
  (in addition to the old support for the ``RequestHandler.include_host``
  attribute).

``tornado.websocket``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Updated to support the latest version of the protocol, as finalized
  in RFC 6455.
* Many bugs were fixed in all supported protocol versions.
* `tornado.websocket` no longer supports the older "draft 76" version
  of the websocket protocol by default, although this version can
  be enabled by overriding ``tornado.websocket.WebSocketHandler.allow_draft76``.
* `.WebSocketHandler.write_message` now accepts a ``binary`` argument
  to send binary messages.
* Subprotocols (i.e. the ``Sec-WebSocket-Protocol`` header) are now supported;
  see the `.WebSocketHandler.select_subprotocol` method for details.
* ``.WebSocketHandler.get_websocket_scheme`` can be used to select the
  appropriate url scheme (``ws://`` or ``wss://``) in cases where
  ``HTTPRequest.protocol`` is not set correctly.

Other modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `tornado.auth.TwitterMixin.authenticate_redirect` now takes a
  ``callback_uri`` parameter.
* `tornado.auth.TwitterMixin.twitter_request` now accepts both URLs and
  partial paths (complete URLs are useful for the search API which follows
  different patterns).
* Exception handling in `tornado.gen` has been improved.  It is now possible
  to catch exceptions thrown by a ``Task``.
* `tornado.netutil.bind_sockets` now works when ``getaddrinfo`` returns
  duplicate addresses.
* `tornado.platform.twisted` compatibility has been significantly improved.
  Twisted version 11.1.0 is now supported in addition to 11.0.0.
* `tornado.process.fork_processes` correctly reseeds the `random` module
  even when `os.urandom` is not implemented.
* `tornado.testing.main` supports a new flag ``--exception_on_interrupt``,
  which can be set to false to make ``Ctrl-C`` kill the process more
  reliably (at the expense of stack traces when it does so).
* ``tornado.version_info`` is now a four-tuple so official releases can be
  distinguished from development branches.
