What's new in Tornado 4.1
=========================

Feb 7, 2015
-----------

Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~

* If a `.Future` contains an exception but that exception is never
  examined or re-raised (e.g. by yielding the `.Future`), a stack
  trace will be logged when the `.Future` is garbage-collected.
* New class `tornado.gen.WaitIterator` provides a way to iterate
  over ``Futures`` in the order they resolve.
* The `tornado.websocket` module now supports compression via the
  "permessage-deflate" extension.  Override
  `.WebSocketHandler.get_compression_options` to enable on the server
  side, and use the ``compression_options`` keyword argument to
  `.websocket_connect` on the client side.
* When the appropriate packages are installed, it is possible to yield
  `asyncio.Future` or Twisted ``Defered`` objects in Tornado coroutines.

Backwards-compatibility notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.HTTPServer` now calls ``start_request`` with the correct
  arguments.  This change is backwards-incompatible, afffecting any
  application which implemented `.HTTPServerConnectionDelegate` by
  following the example of `.Application` instead of the documented
  method signatures.

`tornado.concurrent`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* If a `.Future` contains an exception but that exception is never
  examined or re-raised (e.g. by yielding the `.Future`), a stack
  trace will be logged when the `.Future` is garbage-collected.
* `.Future` now catches and logs exceptions in its callbacks.

``tornado.curl_httpclient``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``tornado.curl_httpclient`` now supports request bodies for ``PATCH``
  and custom methods.
* ``tornado.curl_httpclient`` now supports resubmitting bodies after
  following redirects for methods other than ``POST``.
* ``curl_httpclient`` now runs the streaming and header callbacks on
  the IOLoop.
* ``tornado.curl_httpclient`` now uses its own logger for debug output
  so it can be filtered more easily.

`tornado.gen`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* New class `tornado.gen.WaitIterator` provides a way to iterate
  over ``Futures`` in the order they resolve.
* When the `~functools.singledispatch` library is available (standard on
  Python 3.4, available via ``pip install singledispatch`` on older versions),
  the `.convert_yielded` function can be used to make other kinds of objects
  yieldable in coroutines.
* New function `tornado.gen.sleep` is a coroutine-friendly
  analogue to `time.sleep`.
* `.gen.engine` now correctly captures the stack context for its callbacks.

`tornado.httpclient`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `tornado.httpclient.HTTPRequest` accepts a new argument
  ``raise_error=False`` to suppress the default behavior of raising an
  error for non-200 response codes.

`tornado.httpserver`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.HTTPServer` now calls ``start_request`` with the correct
  arguments.  This change is backwards-incompatible, afffecting any
  application which implemented `.HTTPServerConnectionDelegate` by
  following the example of `.Application` instead of the documented
  method signatures.
* `.HTTPServer` now tolerates extra newlines which are sometimes inserted
  between requests on keep-alive connections.
* `.HTTPServer` can now use keep-alive connections after a request
  with a chunked body.
* `.HTTPServer` now always reports ``HTTP/1.1`` instead of echoing
  the request version.

`tornado.httputil`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* New function `tornado.httputil.split_host_and_port` for parsing
  the ``netloc`` portion of URLs.
* The ``context`` argument to `.HTTPServerRequest` is now optional,
  and if a context is supplied the ``remote_ip`` attribute is also optional.
* `.HTTPServerRequest.body` is now always a byte string (previously the default
  empty body would be a unicode string on python 3).
* Header parsing now works correctly when newline-like unicode characters
  are present.
* Header parsing again supports both CRLF and bare LF line separators.
* Malformed ``multipart/form-data`` bodies will always be logged
  quietly instead of raising an unhandled exception; previously
  the behavior was inconsistent depending on the exact error.

`tornado.ioloop`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The ``kqueue`` and ``select`` IOLoop implementations now report
  writeability correctly, fixing flow control in IOStream.
* When a new `.IOLoop` is created, it automatically becomes "current"
  for the thread if there is not already a current instance.
* New method `.PeriodicCallback.is_running` can be used to see
  whether the `.PeriodicCallback` has been started.

`tornado.iostream`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.IOStream.start_tls` now uses the ``server_hostname`` parameter
  for certificate validation.
* `.SSLIOStream` will no longer consume 100% CPU after certain error conditions.
* `.SSLIOStream` no longer logs ``EBADF`` errors during the handshake as they
  can result from nmap scans in certain modes.

`tornado.options`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `~tornado.options.parse_config_file` now always decodes the config
  file as utf8 on Python 3.
* `tornado.options.define` more accurately finds the module defining the
  option.

``tornado.platform.asyncio``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* It is now possible to yield ``asyncio.Future`` objects in coroutines
  when the `~functools.singledispatch` library is available and
  ``tornado.platform.asyncio`` has been imported.
* New methods `tornado.platform.asyncio.to_tornado_future` and
  `~tornado.platform.asyncio.to_asyncio_future` convert between
  the two libraries' `.Future` classes.

``tornado.platform.twisted``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* It is now possible to yield ``Deferred`` objects in coroutines
  when the `~functools.singledispatch` library is available and
  ``tornado.platform.twisted`` has been imported.

`tornado.tcpclient`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.TCPClient` will no longer raise an exception due to an ill-timed
  timeout.

`tornado.tcpserver`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.TCPServer` no longer ignores its ``read_chunk_size`` argument.

`tornado.testing`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `.AsyncTestCase` has better support for multiple exceptions. Previously
  it would silently swallow all but the last; now it raises the first
  and logs all the rest.
* `.AsyncTestCase` now cleans up `.Subprocess` state on ``tearDown`` when
  necessary.

`tornado.web`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `.asynchronous` decorator now understands `concurrent.futures.Future`
  in addition to `tornado.concurrent.Future`.
* `.StaticFileHandler` no longer logs a stack trace if the connection is
  closed while sending the file.
* `.RequestHandler.send_error` now supports a ``reason`` keyword
  argument, similar to `tornado.web.HTTPError`.
* `.RequestHandler.locale` now has a property setter.
* `.Application.add_handlers` hostname matching now works correctly with
  IPv6 literals.
* Redirects for the `.Application` ``default_host`` setting now match
  the request protocol instead of redirecting HTTPS to HTTP.
* Malformed ``_xsrf`` cookies are now ignored instead of causing
  uncaught exceptions.
* ``Application.start_request`` now has the same signature as
  `.HTTPServerConnectionDelegate.start_request`.

`tornado.websocket`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `tornado.websocket` module now supports compression via the
  "permessage-deflate" extension.  Override
  `.WebSocketHandler.get_compression_options` to enable on the server
  side, and use the ``compression_options`` keyword argument to
  `.websocket_connect` on the client side.
* `.WebSocketHandler` no longer logs stack traces when the connection
  is closed.
* `.WebSocketHandler.open` now accepts ``*args, **kw`` for consistency
  with ``RequestHandler.get`` and related methods.
* The ``Sec-WebSocket-Version`` header now includes all supported versions.
* `.websocket_connect` now has a ``on_message_callback`` keyword argument
  for callback-style use without ``read_message()``.
