What's new in Tornado 6.5.0
===========================

May 15, 2025
------------

Security Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Previously, malformed ``multipart-form-data`` requests could log multiple warnings and
  constitute a denial-of-service attack. Now an exception is raised at the first error, so there
  is only one log message per request. This fixes
  `CVE-2025-47287 <https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado/security/advisories/GHSA-7cx3-6m66-7c5m>`_.

General Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Python 3.14 is now supported. Older versions of Tornado will work on Python 3.14 but may log
  deprecation warnings.
- The free-threading mode of Python 3.13 is now supported on an experimental basis. Prebuilt
  wheels are not yet available for this configuration, but it can be built from source.
- The minimum supported Python version is 3.9.

Deprecation Notices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Support for ``obs-fold`` continuation lines in HTTP headers is deprecated and will be removed in
  Tornado 7.0, as is the use of carriage returns without line feeds as header separators.
- The ``callback`` argument to `.websocket_connect` is deprecated and will be removed in
  Tornado 7.0. Note that ``on_message_callback`` is not deprecated.
- The ``log_message`` and ``args`` attributes of `tornado.web.HTTPError` are deprecated. Use the
  new ``get_message`` method instead.

Type Annotation Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `tornado.concurrent.chain_future` is now typed as accepting both asyncio and concurrent Futures.
- `tornado.gen.multi` and ``multi_future`` now take ``Sequences`` and ``Mappings`` instead of
  ``List`` and ``Dict``.
- `tornado.httputil.RequestStartLine` and `.ResponseStartLine` now have type annotations for
  their attributes.
- `.HTTPHeaders` now has type annotations for its elements.
- The ``autoescape`` argument to `tornado.template.BaseLoader` is now marked as optional.
- ``tornado.routing._RuleList`` is now a ``Sequence`` for more flexibility.
- ``.RequestHandler.SUPPPORTED_METHODS`` is now typed to support overriding in a subclass.
- Types for `.RequestHandler.get_body_argument` and ``get_query_argument`` are improved and now
  match the ``get_argument`` method.
- `.RequestHandler.get_cookie` now has more accurate types.
- The return type of `.UIModule.render` may now be either `str` or `bytes`.

`tornado.httputil`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Support for ``obs-fold`` continuation lines in HTTP headers is deprecated and will be removed in
  Tornado 7.0, as is the use of carriage returns without line feeds as header separators.
- Request start lines may no longer include control characters.
- Method names containing invalid characters now return error code 400 instead of 405.
- Header names are now restricted to the set of characters permitted by the RFCs.
- Control characters are no longer allowed in (incoming) header values.
- Handling of trailing whitespace in headers has been improved, especially with ``obs-fold``
  continuation lines.
- The ``Host`` header is now restricted to the set of characters permitted by the RFCs. It is now an
  error to send more than one ``Host`` header, or to omit a ``Host`` header for a request that is
  not using HTTP/1.0.

`tornado.ioloop`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixed a bug in which `contextvars` that were set when the event loop was created were not
  available inside the event loop on Windows.

`tornado.netutil`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `.bind_unix_socket` now supports the Linux abstract namespace.


`tornado.platform.twisted`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``TwistedResolver`` has been deleted. It was already deprecated and scheduled for removal
  in Tornado 7.0, but due to the adoption of RFC 8482 it no longer works for most
  domain names. This class was primarily intended to provide thread-free non-blocking
  DNS resolution. If that is still required, ``tornado.platform.caresresolver`` is the
  next best option, although it has its own limitations which differ from TwistedResolver,
  and it is also deprecated. Most users should switch to the default resolver, which uses
  threads.

`tornado.web`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The set of characters allowed in (outgoing) HTTP headers now matches the RFCs. Specifically, tab
  characters are now allowed and DEL is not.
- Invalid ``If-Modified-Since`` headers are now ignored instead of causing a 500 error.
- ``%`` characters in the log message of `tornado.web.HTTPError` are no longer doubled when no
  additional arguments are passed. This matches the behavior of `logging.LogRecord`. A new method
  ``get_message`` has been added to ``HTTPError`` to allow access to the fully-substituted message;
  directly accessing ``log_message`` and ``args`` is deprecated.

`tornado.websocket`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Some bugs involving ``ping_interval`` and ``ping_timeout`` have been fixed. Setting the
  ``ping_timeout`` greater than the ``ping_interval`` is no longer supported. The default
  ``ping_timeout`` is now equal to the ``ping_interval``. 
- The ``callback`` argument to ``websocket_connect`` is deprecated and will be removed in
  Tornado 7.0. Note that ``on_message_callback`` is not deprecated.
