What's new in Tornado 6.5.6
===========================

May 27, 2026
------------

Security fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``SimpleAsyncHTTPClient`` now strips the ``Authorization`` and ``Cookie`` headers from the request
  when following a redirect to a different origin. This matches the default behavior of
  ``CurlAsyncHTTPClient``. Applications that need different behavior here can set
  ``follow_redirects=False`` and handle redirects manually. Thanks to `Yannick
  Wang <https://github.com/noobone123>`_ for being first to report this issue, as well as
  additional reporters `Kai Aizen <https://github.com/SnailSploit>`_,
  `HunSec <https://github.com/0xHunSec>`_, and `Thai Son Dinh <https://github.com/sondt99>`_.
  `CVE-2026-49853 <https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado/security/advisories/GHSA-3x9g-8vmp-wqvf>`_
- ``SimpleAsyncHTTPClient`` now enforces ``max_body_size`` on the decompressed size of the response,
  rather than the compressed size. This prevents a denial-of-service attack via a very large
  compressed response. Thanks to `Yuichiro Kedashiro <https://github.com/yuui25>`_ for reporting this
  issue.
  `CVE-2026-49855 <https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado/security/advisories/GHSA-mgf9-4vpg-hj56>`_
- Fixed a bug in the C extension that could have read up to three bytes past the end of an input
  array. Thanks to `Thai Son Dinh <https://github.com/sondt99>`_ for reporting this issue.
  `CVE-2026-49854 <https://github.com/tornadoweb/tornado/security/advisories/GHSA-cx3h-4qpv-8hc9>`_
- ``OpenIDMixin`` has improved parsing for the ``check_authentication`` response. Thanks to
  `Yannick Wang <https://github.com/noobone123>`_ for reporting this issue.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- ``CurlAsyncHTTPClient`` has been updated to use non-deprecated APIs, avoiding deprecation
  warnings with recent versions of ``pycurl``.
